---
title: Building the Contracts
description: Get started by deploying the game contracts.

---

## Project Setup

To get started, clone the starting template into a folder called `zk-game`:

:test-action{actionId="clone-template-project"}

```sh
git clone https://github.com/sarahschwartz/zk-game-tutorial-template.git zk-game
```

In the template, you will find the basic game utilities set up for you, including:

- a `backend` folder which contains an API to handle the requests for proofs,
- a `frontend` folder with most of the frontend application set up already,
- and a `game_lib` folder, which contains a Rust library for the game mechanics.

What's missing from the template are the contracts, prover program, SSO wallet, and onchain interactions.
Let's get started by adding the contracts first.

## Adding Contracts

Move into the `zk-game` folder and create a new `contracts` folder using the `hardhat_solidity` template:

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-clone"}
:test-action{actionId="cli-create-contracts"}

```sh
cd zk-game
npx zksync-cli create contracts --template hardhat_solidity
```

Once that is ready, move into the new `contracts` folder.

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-contracts"}
:test-action{actionId="move-into-contract-folder"}

```sh
cd contracts
```

Once that is ready, move into the new `contracts` folder,
and run the command below to move the `GeneralPaymaster` contract to the `contracts/contracts` folder,
and delete the template files we won't need.

:test-action{actionId="delete-template-files"}

```sh
mv ./contracts/paymasters/GeneralPaymaster.sol ./contracts/
find ./contracts -mindepth 1 ! -name 'GeneralPaymaster.sol' -delete
rm -rf ./scripts/*
rm -rf ./test/*
```

We will be testing our game on a local node.
To deploy the contracts to our local node,
modify the `defaultNetwork` on line 9 inside the `hardhat.config.ts` to set it to `anvilZKsync`.

:test-action{actionId="hh-config"}

```ts
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/hardhat.config.ts:default-network"}
```

### Game Contract Code

Next, create a new file for our game contract called `Brickles.sol`.

:test-action{actionId="create-game-contract"}

```sh
touch contracts/Brickles.sol
```

Copy and paste the full contract below into the file.

:test-action{actionId="open-game-code"}
:test-action{actionId="brickles-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="Brickles.sol"}

```solidity [contracts/contracts/Brickles.sol]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/contracts/Brickles.sol"}
```

::
::

### Understanding the Contract

Let's break down what's in this contract, and how it works.

#### `PublicValuesStruct`

At the top of the contract file is the `PublicValuesStruct`.
This struct defines the public values that will be produced by the proof.

Remember: our prover program will have _private inputs_ and _public outputs_.
The _private inputs_ will include the player's actions and final game score.
The _public outputs_ will include whether or not the action inputs produce the same final game score that they claimed as well as the score itself.

#### Storage Values

There are several persistent storage variables in our contract:

- `verifier`: stores the address of the verifier contract.
- `gameProgramVKey`: stores the program verification key for the prover program.
- `verifiedProofs`: stores all of the verified proofs used.
- `topScores`: keeps track of top 10 high scores across all players.
- `playerBestScores`: stores the high score for each player.

#### Constructor Function

When the contract is deployed, it requires that contract address of the verifier and the `gameProgramVKey` in order to initialize those values.
There are no methods to change these variables, so if they need to be changed, a new deployment would be required.

#### `verifyProof` Function

The only writable function available for players to call is the `verifyProof` function.
It takes the proof and public values hashes,
verifies them with the verifier contract,
and if valid, saves the player's score.

This function first checks to make sure the submitted proof isn't empty and hasn't been used by another player before.
Then, it calls the `verifyProof` function from the verifier contract.
Once verified, it checks to make sure the result of the program was valid, and saves the high score and proof in persistent storage.

#### Read Functions

The `getTopScores` and `getPlayerScore` functions are available to get the top 10 high scores and get the highest score for a given player respectively.

### Verifier Contract Code

We will also need the verifier contract in order to verify the game proofs.
These contracts are provided by SP1.
We will be using version `5.0.0` of the SP1 verifier contracts.

There are three contracts we need to copy:

1. [`ISP1Verifier.sol`](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-contracts/blob/main/contracts/src/ISP1Verifier.sol)
2. [`Groth16Verifier.sol`](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-contracts/blob/main/contracts/src/v5.0.0/Groth16Verifier.sol)
3. [`SP1VerifierGroth16.sol`](https://github.com/succinctlabs/sp1-contracts/blob/main/contracts/src/v5.0.0/SP1VerifierGroth16.sol)

:test-action{actionId="copy-verifier-files"}

Add each of these contracts into your `contracts/contracts` folder.

Make sure to update the import path for `ISP1Verifier.sol` at the top of the `SP1VerifierGroth16.sol` contract.
With each of these added, your `contracts/contracts` folder should look like this:

```shell
├── Brickles.sol
├── GeneralPaymaster.sol
├── Groth16Verifier.sol
├── ISP1Verifier.sol
└── SP1VerifierGroth16.sol

1 directory, 5 files
```

## Deploying Contracts

Create three new files inside the `contracts/scripts` folder for the verifier, paymaster, and game contract deploy scripts.

:test-action{actionId="create-deploy-scripts"}

```bash
touch scripts/deploy-verifier.ts scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts scripts/deploy-game.ts
```

Edit your `contracts/package.json` file so we can easily run the scripts later:

:test-action{actionId="contracts-scripts"}

```json [contracts/package.json]
"deploy:game": "hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-game.ts",
"deploy:verifier": "hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-verifier.ts",
"deploy:paymaster": "hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts",
```

### Starting a Local Node

Open Docker Desktop so the Docker daemon is running in the background,
and use `zksync-cli` to start a local in-memory node:

```bash
npx zksync-cli dev start
```

Then, copy of one the private keys from the [pre-configured rich wallets list](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-era/tooling/local-setup/anvil-zksync-node#pre-configured-rich-wallets),
and update the `contracts/.env` file with the private key like the example below:

:test-action{actionId="add-env-pk"}

```env [contracts/.env]
WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY=0x3d3cbc973389cb26f657686445bcc75662b415b656078503592ac8c1abb8810e
```

### Deploying the Verifier Contracts

Let's start with the verifier contract.
Copy and paste the deploy script:

:test-action{actionId="verifier-script"}

```ts [contracts/scripts/deploy-verifier.ts]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/scripts/deploy-verifier.ts"}
```

Next, compile and deploy the contract from inside the `zk-game/contracts` folder:

:test-action{actionId="compile-and-deploy"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run compile
npm run deploy:verifier
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn compile
yarn deploy:verifier
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm compile
pnpm deploy:verifier
```

```bash [bun]
bun compile
bun deploy:verifier
```

::

Save the deployed contract address somewhere so we can use it later.

### Deploying the Paymaster Contract

Next, let's add the script to deploy and fund the paymaster contract.

:test-action{actionId="paymaster-script"}

```ts [contracts/scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts"}
```

Then, run the script, and save this contract address as well.

:test-action{actionId="deploy-paymaster"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run deploy:paymaster
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn deploy:paymaster
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm deploy:paymaster
```

```bash [bun]
bun deploy:paymaster
```

::

### Deploying the Game Contract

Finally, let's set up the deploy script for the game contract.

:test-action{actionId="game-script"}

```ts [contracts/scripts/deploy-game.ts]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/scripts/deploy-game.ts"}
```

In our deploy script for the game, we need both the verifier contract address and the verification key for our prover program.

:test-action{actionId="get-verifier-address"}

Update the `VERIFIER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` variable with the deployed address from earlier.
However, we need to wait to deploy this contract until we have the `PROGRAM_VERIFICATION_KEY`.
We will do that in the next section.
