---
title: Writing The Program
description: Build the backend service to generate ZK proofs for your app.

---

Now that we have our contracts ready, the next thing we will do is create our program.
This program will be used to generate the verification key used in the `Brickles.sol` smart contract.
The verification key is used to verify that the code being executed by the prover is the same code that we expect.

The program will do three things:

1. Read the private inputs, which will include the recorded player actions, and the final score and time that they claim they achieved.
1. Use the inputs to re-run the game program using the `verify_replay` method in the game library.
  This method will return `true` if claimed final score and time matches what was produced from running the game using the recorded actions,
  and `false` if it does not match`.
1. Output the encoded result of `verify_replay` as well as the final score and time, so it can be decoded inside our Solidity contract.
  The `PublicValuesStruct` coming from the game library matches the one inside the `Brickles.sol` contract.

## Program Setup

Move back into the root folder of the template project,
and create a Rust project inside the `backend` folder called `sp1_program`.

:test-action{actionId="create-sp1-program"}

```bash
cd ..
cargo new backend/sp1_program
```

Next, update project `Cargo.toml` file inside `backend/sp1_program` with the dependencies below:

:test-action{actionId="program-deps"}

```toml [backend/sp1_program/Cargo.toml]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/backend/sp1_program/Cargo.toml:program-deps"}
```

Then, replace the code inside `src/main.rs` with our prover program:

:test-action{actionId="proof-code"}

```rust [backend/sp1_program/src/main.rs]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/backend/sp1_program/src/main.rs"}
```

## Building the Program

Install the `cargo prove` CLI using the commands below:

```bash
curl -L https://sp1.succinct.xyz | bash
sp1up
```

If you have any issue installing the CLI, check out the official [documention](https://docs.succinct.xyz/docs/getting-started/install).

Run the commands below to build the program.
This will build the ELF binary file required for SP1.

:test-action{actionId="build-elf"}

```bash
cd backend/sp1_program
cargo prove build --output-directory backend/elf
```

## Creating a Proof

We can test out our program with a script.
Create a new script in the `backend` folder with the command below:

:test-action{actionId="backend-script"}

```bash
cd ..
cargo new script
```

Then, update the dependencies in the `backend/script/Cargo.toml` config:

:test-action{actionId="script-deps"}

```toml [backend/script/Cargo.toml]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/backend/script/Cargo.toml:script-deps"}
```

The copy/paste the script below into `backend/script/src/main.rs`:

:test-action{actionId="script-code"}

```rust [backend/script/src/main.rs]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/backend/script/src/main.rs"}
```

This script:

- Sets up the SP1 Client.
- Inputs a mock player action log, final score, and time.
- Executes the prover program using the ELF binary.
- Generates a proof.

Using the private key of your wallet that has access to the SP1 network, run the script:

```bash
SP1_PROVER=network NETWORK_RPC_URL=https://rpc.production.succinct.xyz NETWORK_PRIVATE_KEY=<YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY> RUST_LOG=info cargo run -p script --release
```

The script should log the final proof hash and public data hash.

### Getting the Verification Key

The verification key should have been logged in the script.
Now that we have this, update the `PROGRAM_VERIFICATION_KEY` in the `contracts/deploy/deploy-game.ts` script.
Once that is updated, go back into the `contracts` folder and deploy the game contract.

:test-action{actionId="get-vkey"}
:test-action{actionId="deploy-game"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
cd ../contracts
npm run deploy:game
```

```bash [yarn]
cd ../contracts
yarn deploy:game
```

```bash [pnpm]
cd ../contracts
pnpm deploy:game
```

```bash [bun]
cd ../contracts
bun deploy:game
```

::

Save the deployed contract address for the next section.

### Testing the Contract

Now that we have an example proof generated, let's test out the contract.
Add a new file inside the `contracts/deploy` folder called `interact.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="get-game-address"}
:test-action{actionId="create-interact-script"}

```bash
touch deploy/interact.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="get-paymaster-address"}

Copy and paste the script below, and replace the `GAME_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` and `PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` with your deployed contract addresses.
Then, copy and paste the `public values` and `proof` logged from the script into the test data object.

:test-action{actionId="interact-code"}

```ts [contracts/deploy/interact.ts]
:code-import{filePath="zk-game/contracts/deploy/interact.ts"}
```

:test-action{actionId="interact-proof-data"}

Finally, run the interact script to submit the data to the game contract:

:test-action{actionId="run-interact"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run interact
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn interact
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm interact
```

```bash [bun]
bun interact
```

::

The logged result should look something like this:

```shell
SUBMITTING SCORE....
Top scores:  Result(1) [
  Result(4) [
    '0xBC989fDe9e54cAd2aB4392Af6dF60f04873A033A',
    1027n,
    6n,
    10350n
  ]
]
```

The top scores array should contain one score,
and the score itself contains the player address, block timestamp, final score, and recorded time * 1000.

Now that we have the backend for the app working, let's complete the frontend in the next section.
