---
title: Cool Guide
description: Learn from the coolest guide.
---

## Bob Ross Quotes

We'll put a happy little sky in here. With practice comes confidence.
If there's two big trees invariably sooner or later there's gonna be a little tree. We can fix anything.

You have to allow the paint to break to make it beautiful. And maybe a little bush lives there.
Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned.
This is truly an almighty mountain. Happy painting, God bless. Trees grow in all kinds of ways. They're not all perfectly straight. Not every limb is perfect.

Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. The little tiny Tim easels will let you down.
Trees cover up a multitude of sins. That's crazy. But we're not there yet, so we don't need to worry about it.

Let that brush dance around there and play. A little happy sunlight shining through there.
There we are. A beautiful little sunset. If I paint something, I don't want to have to explain what it is.
We have no limits to our world. We're only limited by our imagination.

Pretend you're water. Just floating without any effort. Having a good day. Use absolutely no pressure.
Just like an angel's wing. As trees get older they lose their chlorophyll.

Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. I get carried away with this brush cleaning.
I was blessed with a very steady hand; and it comes in very handy when you're doing these little delicate things.
It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet.

Let's have a nice tree right here. Little trees and bushes grow however makes them happy.
Each highlight must have it's own private shadow. No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen.
I really recommend you use odorless thinner or your spouse is gonna run you right out into the yard and you'll be working by yourself.
Exercising the imagination, experimenting with talents, being creative; these things, to me, are truly the windows to your soul.
