---
title: Getting Started with Interop Messages
description: Get started with Elastic Network interop messages.
---

In this tutorial, we will cover how interop messages work,
how to send them,
and how to verify them on any ZKsync chain that uses ZKsync Gateway.

1. (Optional) First, you will either set up a local ZKsync ecosystem with multiple chains for testing.
1. Next, you will write and deploy smart contracts to send and verify messages onchain.
1. Finally, you will integrate the template frontend to complete the app.

## What We Are Building

We will be building a crosschain DeFi app that uses interop messaging via ZKsync Connect.
The app will allow users to stake ETH on one chain, and then mint a token reward on another chain.

::centered-container
<video width="100%" height="100%" controls muted>
  <source src="/images/interop-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
::

For this app we will create two contracts: a **staking contract** and a **token contract**.

The staking contract allows anyone to deposit and withdraw ETH.
On the first deposit, the user's address is encoded and sent as an interop message.

The token contract allows users to mint some tokens if they can verify that they have previously deposited ETH
to an approved staking contract on any other chain.
The mint function will verify the message sent in the staking contract.
The token contract will also track the number of mints for each staking chain.

## Understanding Interop Messages

Interop messaging marks the first phase of universal interoperability for the Elastic Network.
There are three phases planned for rolling out full interoperability:

1. Messaging
2. Asset transfers and bundles
3. Crosschain transactions

Interop messaging with [ZKsync Connect](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-network/unique-features/zksync-connect)
enables sending and verifying messages across ZKsync chains via [ZKsync Gateway](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/gateway/overview).
An interop message consists of arbitrary data and has two simple properties:

1. Anyone can send a message.
1. Anyone can verify that a given message was successfully sent on some chain.

The message itself has no destination chain or address.
It’s simply a payload created by a user or contract that gets broadcast.
There is no expiration for when messages can be verified.
They remain verifiable indefinitely.

These messages are the foundation to unlock more complex crosschain activities in the future,
ike bridging assets and calling contracts across different chains.

Interop messages currently DO NOT have:

- 🚫 support for selecting destination chains
- 🚫 nullifiers or replay protection
- 🚫 a cancellation mechanism
- 🚫 support for sending assets or calling contracts

These limitations will be addressed in stages 2 and 3 of full universal interoperability.

To learn more in-depth about the lifecycle of interop messages,
check out the [ZKsync Connect messaging](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-network/unique-features/zksync-connect/messaging) page.

## Ecosystem Setup

Before writing any code, you must either setup a local ecosystem for testing or get testnet funds for multiple testnet chains that use ZKsync Gateway.

### Local Ecosystem Setup

The benefit of using a local ecosystem is that transaction finalization is much faster (a few minutes vs. several hours),
and you don't need to get testnet funds from a faucet.

To setup a local multichain ecosystem,
follow the instructions in the [multichain ecosystem](/tutorials/multichain-ecosystem) tutorial.

### Live Testnets Setup

The benefit of using live testnets is that you can skip the steps for a local ecosystem setup,
and run the project on lighter hardware.

If you want to use live testnets that settle on ZKsync Gateway instead of a local setup,
check out the testnets that use ZKsync Gateway in the docs [chains list](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-network/environment),
get some testnet funds for each chain you want to use (at least three recommended),
and continue to the next section.
Note: Although Lens testnet uses a staging version of ZKsync Gateway that is not interoperable with other testnets.
