---
title: Daily spending limit account
description: Build a native smart contract account that has a daily spend limit.
---

This tutorial shows you how to create a smart contract account with a daily spending limit using the ZKsync Era native
account abstraction.

The daily limit feature prevents an account from spending more ETH than the limit set by the account's owner.

## Prerequisites

- Make sure your machine satisfies the [system requirements](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-compiler-solidity/tree/main#system-requirements).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable)
  are installed on your machine.
- You are already familiar with deploying smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
  If not, please refer to the first section of the [quickstart tutorial](https://docs.zksync.io/build/start-coding/quick-start).
- A wallet with sufficient Sepolia `%%zk_testnet_currency_symbol%%` on Ethereum and %%zk_testnet_name%% to pay for deploying smart
  contracts. You can get Sepolia ETH from the [network faucets](https://docs.zksync.io/ecosystem/network-faucets).
  - Get testnet `ETH` for ZKsync Era using [bridges](https://zksync.io/explore#bridges) to bridge funds to ZKsync.
- You know how to get your [private key from your MetaMask wallet](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key).
- We encourage you to read [the basics of account abstraction on ZKsync Era](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/)
  and complete the [multisig account tutorial](/tutorials/native-aa-multisig) before attempting this tutorial.

:display-partial{path="/_partials/_callout-zksync-cli"}

## Complete Project

Download the [complete project on GitHub](https://github.com/zkSync-Community-Hub/community-code/tree/main/code/daily-spend-limit).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
This entire tutorial can be run in under a minute using Atlas.
Atlas is a smart contract IDE that lets you write, deploy, and interact with contracts from your browser.
[Open this project in Atlas](https://app.atlaszk.com/projects?template=https://github.com/Atlas-labs-inc/zksync-daily-spend-limit&open=/scripts/main.ts&chainId=300).
::

## Project Setup

We will use the [ZKsync Era Hardhat plugins](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/guides/getting-started) to build, deploy, and interact
with the smart contracts in this project.

1. Initiate a new project by running the command:

    :test-action{actionId="initialize-project"}

    ```sh
    npx zksync-cli create daily-spend-limit --template hardhat_solidity
    ```

    This creates a new ZKsync Era project called `daily-spend-limit` with a few example contracts.

1. Navigate into the project directory:

    :test-action{actionId="wait-for-init"}
    :test-action{actionId="move-into-project"}

    ```sh
    cd daily-spend-limit
    ```

1. For the purposes of this tutorial, we don't need the example contracts related files. So, proceed by removing all the
   files inside the `/contracts` and `/scripts` folders manually or by running the following commands:

   :test-action{actionId="delete-template-files"}

    ```sh
    rm -rf ./contracts/*
    rm -rf ./scripts/*
    ```

1. Add the ZKsync and OpenZeppelin contract libraries:

    :test-action{actionId="install-deps"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm install -D @openzeppelin/contracts@4.9.5
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn add -D @openzeppelin/contracts@4.9.5
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm add -D @openzeppelin/contracts@4.9.5
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun add -D @openzeppelin/contracts@4.9.5
    ```

    ::

    :test-action{actionId="wait-for-install"}

    ::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
    This project does not use the latest version available of
    `@openzeppelin/contracts`. Make sure you install the specific version mentioned above.
    ::

1. Include the `enableEraVMExtensions: true` setting in the `zksolc` section of the `hardhat.config.ts` configuration file to allow
   interaction with system contracts:

  :test-action{actionId="hardhat-config"}

  ```typescript [hardhat.config.ts]
  :code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/hardhat.config.ts:extensions"}
  ```

:test-action{actionId="deploy-to-local-node"}

## Design

Now let’s dive into the design and implementation of the daily spending limit feature.

The `SpendLimit` contract inherits from the `Account` contract as a module that does the following:

- Allows the account to enable/disable the daily spending limit in a token (ETH in this example).
- Allows the account to change (increase/decrease or remove) the daily spending limit.
- Rejects token transfer if the daily spending limit has been exceeded.
- Restores the available amount for spending after 24 hours.

### Basic Structure

Below you'll find the `SpendLimit` skeleton contract.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/templates/SpendLimit.sol"}
```

The mapping `limits` and struct `Limit` below serve as data storage for the state of daily limits accounts enable.

The roles of each variable in the struct are detailed in the comments.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:limit-struct"}
```

Note that the `limits` mapping uses the token address as its key.
This means that users can set limits for ETH and any other ERC20 token.

### Setting and Removing the Daily Spending Limit

The code below sets and removes the limit.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:manage-limits"}
```

Both `setSpendingLimit` and `removeSpendingLimit` can only be called by account contracts that inherit the contract
`SpendLimit`.
This is ensured by the `onlyAccount` modifier.
They call `_updateLimit` and pass the arguments to modify the storage data of the limit after the verification in `_isValidUpdate` succeeds.

Specifically, `setSpendingLimit` sets a non-zero daily spending limit for a given token, and `removeSpendingLimit`
disables the active daily spending limit by decreasing `limit` and `available` to 0 and setting `isEnabled` to false.

`_isValidUpdate` returns false if the spending limit is not enabled and also throws an `Invalid Update` error if the
user has spent some amount in the day (the available amount is different from the limit) or the function is called
before 24 hours have passed since the last update.
This ensures that users can't freely modify (increase or remove) the daily limit to spend more.

### Checking Daily Spending Limit

The `_checkSpendingLimit` function is internally called by the account contract before executing the transaction.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:check-limit"}
```

If the daily spending limit is disabled, the checking process immediately stops.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:limit-is-enabled"}
```

Before checking the spending amount, this method renews the `resetTime` and `available` amount if a day has already
passed since the last update: `timestamp > resetTime`.
It only updates the `resetTime` if the transaction is the first spending after enabling the limit.
This way the daily limit actually starts with the first transaction.

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:limit-available"}
```

Finally, the method checks if the account can spend a specified amount of the token.
If the amount doesn't exceed the available amount, it decrements the `available` in the limit:

```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol:exceeds-limit"}
```

### Full Code for the `SpendLimit` Contract

1. In the folder `contracts`, add a file called `SpendLimit.sol`

    :test-action{actionId="add-spend-limit-file"}

    ```sh
    touch contracts/SpendLimit.sol
    ```

1. Copy/paste the complete code below.

    ::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
    The value of the `ONE_DAY` variable is initially set to `1 minutes`
    instead of `24 hours`. This is just for testing purposes as we don't want to wait a full day to see if it works! Don't
    forget to change the value before deploying the contract.
    ::

    :test-action{actionId="open-spend-limit-code-panel"}
    :test-action{actionId="spend-limit-contract"}

    ::drop-panel
      ::panel{label="SpendLimit.sol"}

        ```solidity [SpendLimit.sol]
        :code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/SpendLimit.sol"}
        ```
      ::
    ::

### `Account` and `AAFactory` Contracts

Let's create the account contract `Account.sol`, and the factory contract that deploys account contracts, in
`AAFactory.sol`.
As noted earlier, those two contracts are based on the implementations of
[the multisig account abstraction tutorial](/tutorials/native-aa-multisig).
The main difference is that our account has a single signer.

#### Account.sol

1. Create a file `Account.sol` in the `contracts` folder.

    :test-action{actionId="account-contract-file"}

    ```sh
    touch contracts/Account.sol
    ```

2. Copy/paste the code below.

The account implements the [IAccount](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/design#iaccount-interface) interface
and inherits the `SpendLimit` contract we just created.
Since we are building an account with signers, we should also implement
[EIP1271](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/83277ff916ac4f58fec072b8f28a252c1245c2f1/contracts/interfaces/IERC1271.sol#L12).

The `isValidSignature` method will take care of verifying the signature and making sure the extracted address matches
with the owner of the account.

:test-action{actionId="open-account-code-panel"}
:test-action{actionId="add-account-contract"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="Account.sol"}

```solidity [Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/Account.sol"}
```

::
::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
The formal ETH address on ZKsync Era is
`0x000000000000000000000000000000000000800a`. Neither the well-known `0xEee...EEeE` used by protocols as a placeholder
on Ethereum, nor the zero address `0x000...000`,
that ([`zksync-ethers` provides](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/era-contracts/l1-contracts)) has a more user-friendly alias.

::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
The `SpendLimit` account is token-agnostic. This means an extension is also possible:
add a check for whether or not the execution is an ERC20 transfer by extracting the function selector in
bytes from transaction calldata.
::

#### AAFactory.sol

The `AAFactory.sol` contract is responsible for deploying instances of the `Account.sol` contract.

1. Create the `AAFactory.sol` file in the `contracts` folder.

    :test-action{actionId="aa-factory-file"}

    ```sh
    touch contracts/AAFactory.sol
    ```

1. Copy/paste the code below.

:test-action{actionId="aa-factory-contract"}

```solidity [AAFactory.sol]
:code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/contracts/AAFactory.sol"}
```

## Compile and Deploy the Smart Contracts

1. Compile the contracts from the project root.

    :test-action{actionId="compile"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm run compile
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn compile
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm compile
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun compile
    ```

    ::

1. Create a file named `scripts/deploy.ts`. Then, copy and paste the following code into it. Remember to
   add your `WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY` to the `.env` file.

    :test-action{actionId="create-deploy-factory-script-file"}

    ```sh
    touch scripts/deploy.ts
    ```

    The script deploys the factory, creates a new smart contract account, and funds it with some ETH.

    :test-action{actionId="make-env-file"}
    :test-action{actionId="modify-env-file"}
    :test-action{actionId="deploy-factory-script"}

    ```typescript [scripts/deploy.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/scripts/deploy.ts"}
    ```

1. Run the script.

    :test-action{actionId="run-deploy-script"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm run deploy
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn deploy
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm deploy
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun deploy
    ```

    ::

    You should see the following:

    ```txt
    AA factory address: 0x0d3205bc8134A11f9402fBA01947Bf377FaE4C39
    SC Account owner pk:  0x4ze1f87c5e575dsb6b35afe70ftu93fs53bca24592f6ng25f3v1a4f6fsd3vz
    SC Account deployed on address 0x29d0D17857bdA971F40FF11145859eED7bD15c00
    Funding smart contract account with some ETH
    Done!
    ```

Open up the [%%zk_testnet_name%% Block Explorer](%%zk_testnet_block_explorer_url%%) and search for the deployed Account contract
address in order to track transactions and changes in the balance.

## Set the daily spending limit

1. Create the file `setLimit.ts` in the `scripts` folder and copy/paste the example code below.

    :test-action{actionId="wait-for-script"}
    :test-action{actionId="create-set-limit-script"}

    ```sh
    touch scripts/setLimit.ts
    ```

1. Replace `<DEPLOYED_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS>` and `<DEPLOYED_ACCOUNT_OWNER_PRIVATE_KEY>` with the output from the previous
   section, or add those variables in your `.env` file.

    :test-action{actionId="get-deployed-account-address"}
    :test-action{actionId="get-private-key"}

    To enable the daily spending limit, we execute the `setSpendingLimit` function with two parameters: token address and limit amount.
    The token address is `ETH_ADDRESS` and the limit parameter is `0.0005` in the example below (and can be any amount).

    :test-action{actionId="set-limit-script"}

    ```typescript [setLimit.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/scripts/setLimit.ts"}
    ```

1. Run the script.

    :test-action{actionId="run-set-limit-script"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npx]
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/setLimit.ts
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/setLimit.ts
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm hardhat run ./scripts/setLimit.ts
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun hardhat run ./scripts/setLimit.ts
    ```

    ::

    You should see the following output:

    ```text
    Setting limit for account...
    Account limit enabled?:  true
    Account limit:  500000000000000
    Available limit today:  500000000000000
    Time to reset limit:  1708688165
    ```

## Perform ETH Transfer

Let's test the `SpendLimit` contract works to make it refuse ETH transfers that exceed the daily limit.

1. Create `transferETH.ts` and copy/paste the example code below, replacing the placeholder constants as before and
   adding an account address for `RECEIVER_ACCOUNT`.

    :test-action{actionId="add-receiver-account"}
    :test-action{actionId="create-transfer-script"}

    ```sh
    touch scripts/transferETH.ts
    ```

    :test-action{actionId="add-transfer-script"}

    ```typescript [scripts/transferETH.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="daily-spend-limit/scripts/transferETH.ts"}
    ```

1. Run the script to attempt to make a transfer.

    :test-action{actionId="run-transfer-script"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npx]
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/transferETH.ts
    ```

     ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/transferETH.ts
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm hardhat run ./scripts/transferETH.ts
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun hardhat run ./scripts/transferETH.ts
    ```

    ::

    You should see an error message with the following content so we know it failed because the amount exceeded the limit.

    ```shell
    An unexpected error occurred:
    Error: transaction failed...

    shortMessage: 'execution reverted: "Exceeds daily limit"'
    ```

    You can also search the transaction in the explorer to see the error reason.

    After the error, we can rerun the code with a different ETH amount that doesn't exceed the limit, say "0.00049", to see
    if the `SpendLimit` contract doesn't refuse the amount lower than the limit.

    If the transaction succeeds, the output should look something like this:

    ```shell
    Account ETH limit is:  500000000000000
    Available today:  494900000000000
    Limit will reset on timestamp:  1708689912
    Sending ETH transfer from smart contract account
    ETH transfer tx hash is 0x6e7742e6555a88ca1489a06992711d413a12358f77c611cca96aba112ced812b
    Transfer completed and limits updated!
    Account limit:  500000000000000
    Available today:  449000000000000
    Limit will reset on timestamp: 1708690236
    Current timestamp:  1708690185
    Reset time was not updated as not enough time has passed
    ```

    The `available` value in the `Limit` struct updates to the initial limit minus the amount we transferred.

    Since `ONE_DAY` is set to 1 minute for this test in the `SpendLimit.sol` contract, you should expect it to reset after
    60 seconds.

## Common Errors

- **Insufficient gasLimit**: Transactions often fail due to insufficient gasLimit. Please increase the value manually when
  transactions fail without clear reasons.
- **Insufficient balance in account contract**: transactions may fail due to the lack of balance in the deployed account
  contract. Please transfer funds to the account using MetaMask or the `wallet.deposit()` method used in
  `scripts/deploy.ts`.
- Transactions submitted in a close range of time will have the same `block.timestamp` as they can be added to the same
  L1 batch and might cause the spend limit to not work as expected.

## Learn More

- To learn more about L1->L2 interaction on ZKsync, check out the
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/rollup/l1_l2_communication).
- To learn more about the `zksync-ethers` SDK, check out its
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-era/sdk/js/ethers).
- To learn more about the ZKsync hardhat plugins, check out their
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/guides/getting-started).

## Credits

Written by [porco-rosso](https://linktr.ee/porcorossoj) for the GitCoin bounty.
Updated by Matter Labs.

::twitter-button{text="Deployed my first smart contract account with a daily spending limit on ZKsync"}
