---
title: How to test EraVM smart contracts with Hardhat
description: Learn how to test your EraVM smart contracts locally using anvil-zksync and Hardhat
---

This tutorial provides a step-by-step guide on testing EraVM smart contracts using the `hardhat-chai-matchers` plugin
in conjunction with the **Anvil ZKsync** node on your local machine.
To facilitate this process of running tests on the **Anvil ZKsync** node, you'll also utilize the `hardhat-zksync` plugin.

Note that for EVM contracts,
the standard method of [testing with Hardhat](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-runner/docs/guides/test-contracts) works out-of-the-box.
To learn more about how EVM is supported,
you can read about ZKsync's
[EVM Interpreter](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-era/unique-features/evm-interpreter/evm-interpreter) in the docs.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js installed (version 14.x or later)
- Either `yarn`, `npm`, `pnpm`, or `bun` installed

## Anvil ZKsync plugin

In this tutorial, the contract functionality is tested using [Anvil ZKsync](https://docs.zksync.io/build/test-and-debug/in-memory-node).
To start local node we use the `hardhat-zksync` plugin to integrate this functionality within the Hardhat project.

### Installation

First, initialize a new Hardhat TypeScript project:

:test-action{actionId="initialize-hardhat-project"}

```bash
npx hardhat --init
```

Select the option to use `hardhat-2` with `typscript` and `mocha-ethers`.
Select yes to install the default dependencies.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
Hardhat v3 is not fully supported for `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync`.
::

To install the `hardhat-zksync` plugin, execute the following command:

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-initialization"}
:test-action{actionId="install-deps"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm i -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
```

```bash [bun]
bun add -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
```

::

Once installed, add the plugin at the top of your `hardhat.config.ts` file.

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-deps"}
:test-action{actionId="import-zksync-config"}

```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/hardhat.config.ts:import"}
```

### Starting the Anvil ZKsync Node

You can now run the **Anvil ZKsync node** with the following command:

:test-action{actionId="run-hh-node"}

::code-group

```bash [npx]
npx hardhat node-zksync
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn hardhat node-zksync
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm hardhat node-zksync
```

```bash [bun]
bun hardhat node-zksync
```

::

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-hh-node"}
:test-action{actionId="test-hh-node"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
We'll want to verify the correctness of our installations and test if we can run a **Anvil ZKsync node**,
without further use of this command in the tutorial.
::

You should see the node endpoint logged in the console:

```bash
========================================
  Listening on 0.0.0.0:8011
========================================
```

Since we've confirmed that the **Anvil ZKsync node** is functioning properly with the help of the `hardhat-zksync` plugin,
we can shut it down and continue with the tutorial.

### Integration with Hardhat

To enable the usage of Anvil ZKsync in Hardhat,
update the version of Solidity to `0.8.28`
in the `hardhat.config.ts` file,
add the `zksync:true` option to the hardhat network,
and add the latest version of `zksolc`:

:test-action{actionId="zksync-hh-network"}

```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/hardhat.config.ts:config"}
```

## hardhat-chai-matchers plugin

To leverage ZKsync-specific capabilities within the [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) assertion library for testing smart contracts,
it's necessary to use the `hardhat-chai-matchers` plugin.

In the root directory of your project, execute this command:

:test-action{actionId="install-chai-ethers"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm i -D @nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D  @nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add -D  @nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers
```

```bash [bun]
bun add -D  @nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers
```

::

After installing it, add the plugin at the top of your `hardhat.config.ts` file:

:test-action{actionId="import-chai-matchers"}

```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/hardhat.config.ts:chai"}
```

With the previous steps completed, your `hardhat.config.ts` file should now be properly configured to include settings for local testing.

:test-action{actionId="compare-config"}

```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/hardhat.config.ts"}
```

## Smart contract example

To set up the environment for using chai matchers and writing tests, you'll need to create some contracts.

Inside the **contracts** folder, rename the example contract file to **Greeter.sol**.

:test-action{actionId="rename-greeter-file"}

```bash
mv contracts/Lock.sol contracts/Greeter.sol
```

Now replace the example contract in **Greeter.sol** with the new `Greeter` contract below:

:test-action{actionId="create-greeter-contract"}

```ts [Greeter.sol]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/contracts/Greeter.sol"}
```

## Write Test Cases

Now you can create a test with the `hardhat-chai-matchers` plugin:

Inside the `/test` folder, rename the example test file to `test.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="rename-test-file"}

```bash
mv test/Lock.ts test/test.ts
```

Replace the old test with this example showcasing the functionalities of the contract:

:test-action{actionId="create-test"}

```ts [test.ts]
:code-import{filePath="test-contracts/test/test.ts"}
```

Execute the following command in your terminal to run the tests:

:test-action{actionId="run-test"}

::code-group

```bash [npx]
npx hardhat test
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn hardhat test
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm hardhat test
```

```bash [bun]
bun hardhat test
```

::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
When you execute this command, the contract will be automatically compiled, eliminating the need for manual compilation.
However, if you prefer to compile manually, simply run the following command `npm hardhat compile` / `yarn hardhat compile`.

::

The `hardhat-zksync` plugin overrides the default behavior of the Hardhat `test` task.
It starts the **Anvil ZKsync node** before running tests, executes the tests,
and then automatically shuts down the node after the test cases are completed.

Additionally, the plugin generates a log file named `era_test_node.log`,
which indicates the node's activity and transactions made during the tests.
Whenever you re-run the `test` command, the content of `era_test_node.log` is refreshed.

This setup ensures that your tests are executed against a controlled environment,
mimicking the behavior of a live network but in a local sandboxed context.
It's a common practice to ensure that smart contracts behave
as expected under various conditions before deploying them to a live network.

`anvil-zksync.log` file example:

```sh
10:53:11  INFO
10:53:11  INFO EthToken System Contract
10:53:11  INFO   Topics:
10:53:11  INFO     0xddf252ad1be2c89b69c2b068fc378daa952ba7f163c4a11628f55a4df523b3ef
10:53:11  INFO     0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000008001
10:53:11  INFO     0x00000000000000000000000036615cf349d7f6344891b1e7ca7c72883f5dc049
10:53:11  INFO   Data (Hex): 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000028e0ec2a9900
10:53:11  INFO
10:53:11  INFO Call: SUCCESS
10:53:11  INFO Output: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001"
10:53:11  INFO === Console Logs:
10:53:11  INFO === Call traces:
```
