---
title: Native multisig smart account
description: Build a native smart contract account that requires multiple signatures.
---

This tutorial shows you how to build and deploy a 2-of-2 multi-signature account via a factory contract, then test it by sending a transaction.

## Prerequisites

- Make sure your machine satisfies the [system requirements](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-compiler-solidity/tree/main#system-requirements).
- A [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installation running at minimum Node.js version `18`.
- Some background knowledge on the concepts covered by the tutorial would be helpful too.
  Have a look at the following docs:
  - [Account abstraction protocol](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/design).
  - [Introduction to system contracts](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/era-contracts/system-contracts).
  - [Smart contract deployment](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/ethereum-differences/contract-deployment) on zkSyn Era.
  - [Gas estimation for transactions](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/fee-model#gas-estimation-for-transactions) guide.
- You should also know [how to get your private key from your MetaMask wallet](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key).

:display-partial{path="/_partials/_callout-zksync-cli"}

## Complete Project

Download the [complete project from GitHub](https://github.com/zksync-community-hub/community-code/tree/main/code/multisig).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
This entire tutorial can be run in under a minute using Atlas.
Atlas is a smart contract IDE that lets you write, deploy, and interact with contracts from your browser.
[Open this project in Atlas](https://app.atlaszk.com/projects?template=https://github.com/atlas-labs-inc/zksync-aa-multisig&open=/scripts/main.ts&chainId=300).
::

## Setup

1. Initiate a new project by running the command:

    :test-action{actionId="initialize-project"}

    ```sh
    npx zksync-cli create native-aa-multisig --template hardhat_solidity
    ```

    This creates a new ZKsync Era project called `native-aa-multisig` with a few example contracts.

1. Navigate into the project directory:

    :test-action{actionId="move-into-project"}

    ```sh
    cd native-aa-multisig
    ```

1. For the purposes of this tutorial, we don't need the example contracts related files.
  So, proceed by removing all the files inside the `/contracts` and `/scripts` folders manually or by running the following commands:

    :test-action{actionId="delete-templates"}

    ```sh
    rm -rf ./contracts/*
    rm -rf ./scripts/*
    ```

1. Include the `enableEraVMExtensions: true` setting in the `zksolc` section of the `hardhat.config.ts` configuration file
to allow interaction with system contracts:

    :test-action{actionId="hardhat-config"}

    ```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="multisig/hardhat.config.ts:extensions"}
    ```

    :test-action{actionId="use-local-node"}

## Account Abstraction

Each account must implement the [IAccount](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/design#iaccount-interface) interface.
Furthermore, since we are building an account with multiple signers, we should implement [EIP1271](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/83277ff916ac4f58fec072b8f28a252c1245c2f1/contracts/interfaces/IERC1271.sol#L12).

The skeleton code for the contract is given below.
Use it to perform next steps, or you can skip and use completed code from the [Full example](#full-example) section.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/template/Account.sol"}
```

<!-- ::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"} -->
<!-- TODO: @itsacoyote where system contracts link? -->
<!-- The `onlyBootloader` modifier ensures that only the
[bootloader](../../../developer-reference/system-contracts.md#bootloader)
calls the `validateTransaction`/`executeTransaction`/`payForTransaction`/`prepareForPaymaster` functions. -->
<!--- :: -->

The `executeTransactionFromOutside` function allows external users to initiate transactions from this account.
We implement it by calling `validateTransaction` and `executeTransaction`.

In addition, `checkValidECDSASignatureFormat` and `extractECDSASignature` are helper functions for the `isValidSignature` implementation.

### Signature Validation

We import OpenZeppelin's `ECDSA` library to use for signature validation.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:import-ECDSA"}
```

Since we are building a two-account multisig, we pass the owners' addresses to the constructor and save their state variables.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:account-owner-vars"}
```

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:constructor"}
```

To validate the signature we have to implement the following:

- Check if the length of the received signature is correct.
- Extract the two signatures from the received multisig using the helper function `extractECDSASignature`.
- Check if both signatures are valid using the helper function `checkValidECDSASignatureFormat`.
- Extract the addresses from the transaction hash and each signature using the `ECDSA.recover` function.
- Check if the addresses extracted match with the owners of the account.
- Return the `EIP1271_SUCCESS_RETURN_VALUE` value on success or `bytes4(0)` if validation fails.

Below is the full implementation of the `isValidSignature` function:

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:isValidSignature"}
```

### Transaction Validation

The transaction validation process is responsible for validating the signature of the transaction and incrementing the nonce.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
There are some [limitations](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/building-smart-accounts#verification-step-limitations)
on this function.
::

To increment the nonce, use the `incrementMinNonceIfEquals` function from the `NONCE_HOLDER_SYSTEM_CONTRACT` system contract.
It takes the nonce of the transaction and checks whether it is the same as the provided one.
If not, the transaction reverts; otherwise, the nonce increases.

Even though the requirements above mean the accounts only touch their own storage slots,
accessing your nonce in the `NONCE_HOLDER_SYSTEM_CONTRACT` is a [whitelisted](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/extending-4337#extending-the-set-of-slots-that-belong-to-a-user)
case, since it behaves in the same way as your storage, it just happens to be in another contract.

To call the `NONCE_HOLDER_SYSTEM_CONTRACT`, we add the following import:

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:import-constants"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
The non-view functions of the `NONCE_HOLDER_SYSTEM_CONTRACT` are called if the `isSystem` flag is on.

Use the [systemCallWithPropagatedRevert](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/6250292a98179cd442516f130540d6f862c06a16/system-contracts/contracts/libraries/SystemContractsCaller.sol#L150)
function of the `SystemContractsCaller` library.

Import this library also:
  `solidity
// to call non-view function of system contracts
import "@matterlabs/zksync-contracts/l2/system-contracts/libraries/SystemContractsCaller.sol";
`
::

Use the `TransactionHelper` library, as imported above with `using TransactionHelper for Transaction;`
to get the transaction hash that should be signed.
You can also implement your own signature scheme and use a different commitment for signing the transaction,
but in this example, we use the hash provided by this library.

Finally, the `_validateTransaction` function has to return the constant `ACCOUNT_VALIDATION_SUCCESS_MAGIC`
if the validation is successful, or an empty value `bytes4(0)` if it fails.

Here is the full implementation for the `_validateTransaction` function:

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:_validateTransaction"}
```

### Paying Fees for the Transaction

This section explains the `payForTransaction` function.

The `TransactionHelper` library already provides us with the `payToTheBootloader` function,
that sends `_transaction.maxFeePerGas * _transaction.gasLimit` ETH to the bootloader.
The implementation is straightforward:

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:payForTransaction"}
```

### Implementing Paymaster Support

While the account abstraction protocol enables arbitrary actions when interacting with the paymasters,
there are some [common patterns](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/paymasters#built-in-paymaster-flows)
with built-in support for EOAs.
Unless you want to implement or restrict some specific paymaster use cases for your account, it is better to keep it consistent with EOAs.

The `TransactionHelper` library provides the `processPaymasterInput`
which does exactly that: processes the paymaster parameters the same it's done in EOAs.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:prepareForPaymaster"}
```

### Transaction Execution

To implement transaction execution, extract the transaction data and execute it:

```solidity
function _executeTransaction(Transaction calldata _transaction) internal {
    uint256 to = _transaction.to;
    // By convention, the `reserved[1]` field is msg.value
    uint256 value = _transaction.reserved[1];
    bytes memory data = _transaction.data;

    bool success;
    // execute transaction
    assembly {
        success := call(gas(), to, value, add(data, 0x20), mload(data), 0, 0)
    }

    // Return value required for the transaction to be correctly processed by the server.
    require(success);
}
```

Calling `ContractDeployer` is only possible by explicitly using the `isSystem` call flag.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol:_executeTransaction"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
Whether or not the operator considers the transaction successful depends on whether the call to `executeTransactions` is successful.
Therefore, it is highly recommended to put `require(success)` for the transaction, so that users get the best UX.
::

### Full Code of the TwoUserMultisig Contract

1. Create a file `TwoUserMultisig.sol` in the `contracts` folder and copy/paste the code below into it.

:test-action{actionId="make-multisig-contract"}

```shell
touch contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol
```

:test-action{actionId="multisig-contract-code"}

```solidity [TwoUserMultisig.sol]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/TwoUserMultisig.sol"}
```

## The Factory

1. Create a new Solidity file in the `contracts` folder called `AAFactory.sol`.

    :test-action{actionId="make-factory-contract"}

    ```shell
    touch contracts/AAFactory.sol
    ```

    The contract is a factory that deploys the accounts.

    ::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
    To deploy the multisig smart contract, it is necessary to interact with the `DEPLOYER_SYSTEM_CONTRACT` and call the `create2Account` function.
    If the code doesn't do this, you may see errors like `Validation revert: Sender is not an account`.
    Read the documentation on using
    [`create2Account` during the deployment process](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/building-smart-accounts#deployment-process)
    for more information.
    ::

1. Copy/paste the following code into the file.

    :test-action{actionId="factory-contract-code"}

    ```solidity [AAFactory.sol]
    :code-import{filePath="multisig/contracts/AAFactory.sol"}
    ```

It's worth remembering that, on ZKsync Era, [contract deployments](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/ethereum-differences/contract-deployment)
are not done via bytecode, but via bytecode hash.
The bytecode itself is passed to the operator via the `factoryDeps` field.
Note that the `_aaBytecodeHash` must be formed in the following manner:

- Firstly, it is hashed with sha256.
- Then, the first two bytes are replaced with the length of the bytecode in 32-byte words.

This functionality is built into the SDK.

## Deploy the Factory

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Make sure you deposit funds on ZKsync Era using [one of the available bridges](https://zksync.io/explore#bridges) before running the deployment script.
::

1. In your `.env` file, add your private key as the `WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY` variable.

    :test-action{actionId="make-env-file"}
    :test-action{actionId="env-pk"}

1. In the `scripts` folder, create the file `deploy-factory.ts` and copy/paste the following code.

    :test-action{actionId="make-deploy-script"}

    ```shell
    touch scripts/deploy-factory.ts
    ```

    :test-action{actionId="deploy-script-code"}

    ```ts [deploy-factory.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-factory.ts"}
    ```

1. From the project root, compile and deploy the contracts.

    :test-action{actionId="compile-and-deploy-factory"}

    ::code-group

    ```shell [npx]
    npx hardhat compile
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-factory.ts
    ```

    ```sh [yarn]
    yarn hardhat compile
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-factory.ts
    ```

    ::

    The output should look like this:

    ```txt
    AA factory address: 0x70696950F71BB1cCF36Dbd1B77Ae54f96a79b005
    ```

Note that the address will be different for each run.

## Working with Accounts

### Deploying an Account

Now, let's deploy an account and use it to initiate a new transaction.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
This section assumes you have an EOA account with sufficient funds on ZKsync Era to deploy a smart contract account.
::

In the `scripts` folder, create a file called `deploy-multisig.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="create-deploy-multisig"}

```shell
touch scripts/deploy-multisig.ts
```

The call to the `deployAccount` function deploys the AA.

:test-action{actionId="deploy-multisig-code"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:min-script"}
}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
ZKsync has different address derivation rules from Ethereum.
Always use the [`createAddress`](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers/api/v6/utilities#createaddress)
and [`create2Address`](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers/api/v6/utilities#create2address) utility functions of the `zksync-ethers` SDK.

Read the documentation for more information on [address derivation differences between Ethereum and ZKsync](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/ethereum-differences/evm-instructions#address-derivation).
::

### Start a Transaction from the Account

Before the deployed account can submit transactions, we need to deposit some ETH to it for the transaction fees.

:test-action{actionId="deposit-funds"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:send-funds"}
```

Now we can try to deploy a new multisig; the initiator of the transaction will be our deployed account from the previous part.

:test-action{actionId="create-deploy-tx"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:create-deploy-tx"}
```

Then, we need to fill all the transaction fields:

:test-action{actionId="modify-deploy-tx"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:tx-gas"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Currently, we expect the `l2gasLimit` to cover both the verification and the execution steps.
The gas returned by `estimateGas` is `execution_gas + 20000`, where `20000` is roughly equal to the overhead
needed for the default AA to have both the fee charged and the signature verified.
</br>
In the case that your AA has an expensive verification step, you should add some constant to the `l2gasLimit`.
::

Then, we need to sign the transaction and provide the `aaParamas` in the customData of the transaction.

:test-action{actionId="sign-deploy-tx"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:sign-tx"}
```

Finally, we are ready to send the transaction:

:test-action{actionId="send-deploy-tx"}

```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
:code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts:broadcast-tx"}
```

:test-action{actionId="add-run-main"}

### Full Example

1. Copy/paste the following code into the deployment file, replacing the `<FACTORY-ADDRESS>` placeholder with the deployed contract address.

    :test-action{actionId="final-deploy-script"}

    ```ts [deploy-multisig.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="multisig/scripts/deploy-multisig.ts"}
    ```

    :test-action{actionId="get-deployed-account-address"}

1. Run the script from the `scripts` folder.

    :test-action{actionId="run-deploy-multisig"}

    ::code-group

    ```shell [npx]
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-multisig.ts
    ```

    ```sh [yarn]
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-multisig.ts

    ```

    ::

    The output should look something like this:

    ```txt
    Multisig account deployed on address 0x4A1e5F7AeA6830372dCa584cbFaaBa1F21298a01
    Sending funds to multisig account
    Multisig account balance is 8000000000000000
    The multisig's nonce before the first tx is 0
    Transaction sent from multisig with hash 0xe91a8665f6777aa3c003844d9d0971a3b3ebbe1f8f3e0d941a3bc797963c7cca
    The multisig's nonce after the first tx is 1
    Multisig account balance is now 7962859900000000
    ```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
If you get an error `Not enough balance to cover the fee.`,
try increasing the amount of ETH sent to the multisig wallet
so it has enough funds to pay for the transaction fees.
::

## Learn More

- To learn more about L1->L2 interaction on ZKsync, check out the
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interoperability).
- To learn more about the `zksync-ethers` SDK, check out its
  [documentation](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers).
- To learn more about the ZKsync hardhat plugins, check out their
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build/tooling/hardhat/getting-started).

::twitter-button{text="Just built a native multisig smart contract acccount on @zkSyncDevs"}
