---
title: Using Web3.js to interact with ZKsync
description: Learn how to use Web3js to interact with ZKsync and use built-in functions for ZKsync-specific JSON RPC methods.
---

[Web3.js](https://web3js.org/) is a robust and flexible collection of libraries for TypeScript and JavaScript developers.
It serves as an essential tool for connecting and crafting applications within the Ethereum ecosystem
and can be extended to support other networks through its [plugin system](https://docs.web3js.org/guides/web3_plugin_guide/).

You can use the [ZKsync plugin](https://github.com/web3/web3-plugin-zksync) for Web3.js
to interact with the [ZKsync JSON-RPC API](https://docs.zksync.io/build/api.html) smart contracts deployed
on ZKsync. Whether you are setting up a project from scratch or integrating Web3.js into an existing project,
this guide has you covered.

## Installation with existing project

For existing projects, start by adding Web3.js and the ZKsync plugin for Web3.js.
Open your terminal and execute the following command:

```bash
npm install web3 web3-plugin-zksync
```

This command installs the latest version of Web3.js and the ZKsync plugin for Web3.js and adds them to your project's dependencies.

## Creating a project with ZKsync CLI

This section provides a quick start for developers who prefer using ZKsync CLI to bootstrap their Web3.js
project from scratch. It’s ideal for those looking to create scripts that interact with ZKsync contracts in a new project.

**Step 1:** Install ZKsync CLI globally

```bash
npm install -g @matterlabs/zksync-cli
```

**Step 2:** Create a new ZKsync project by running

```bash
zksync-cli create --template node_web3js my-project
```

And then choose your preferred package manager in the list. This command will generate a new project with all
necessary configurations for ZKsync and install all necessary dependencies.

**Step 3:** Navigate to the newly created project directory:

```bash
cd my-project
```

**Step 4:** Let's walk through the code to understand each part before running the script.

### Initialization

Before using the ZKsync plugin for Web3.js, you need to [initialize Web3 with a provider](https://docs.web3js.org/#initialize-web3-with-a-provider)
and [register the plugin](https://docs.web3js.org/guides/web3_plugin_guide/plugin_users#registering-the-plugin).

#### Example

```javascript
import { Web3 } from "web3";
import { ZKsyncPlugin } from "web3-plugin-zksync";

const zksyncRpcUrl: string = "https://sepolia.era.zksync.dev";

console.log(`📞 Connecting to ZKsync Era [${zksyncRpcUrl}]`);
const web3: Web3 = new Web3(zksyncRpcUrl);
web3.registerPlugin(new ZKsyncPlugin(zksyncRpcUrl));
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
This examples uses the %%zk_testnet_name%%.
::

### Ethereum JSON-RPC API

Use the Web3.js `eth` package to fetch data from the ZKsync [Ethereum JSON-RPC API](https://docs.zksync.io/build/api-reference/ethereum-rpc).

#### Fetch the Latest Block Number

```javascript
const blockNumber = await web3.eth.getBlockNumber();
console.log(`Current block number: ${blockNumber}`);
```

### ZKsync L2-Specific JSON-RPC API

The ZKsync plugin for Web3.js implements the ZKsync-specific methods
from the `zks_` namespace of the [JSON-RPC API](https://docs.zksync.io/build/api.html#zksync-era-json-rpc-methods).

#### Fetch the Main Contract Address

<!-- /*spellchecker: disable*/ -->
```javascript
const mainContract = await web3.ZKsync.rpc.getMainContract();
console.log(`Main contract: ${mainContract}`);
```
<!-- /*spellchecker: enable*/ -->

**Step 5:** Write your code in `src/main.ts` file, then run the script using `npm run start`.

```javascript
import { Web3 } from "web3";
import { ZKsyncPlugin } from "web3-plugin-zksync";

const zksyncRpcUrl: string = "https://sepolia.era.zksync.dev";

console.log(`📞 Connecting to ZKsync Era [${zksyncRpcUrl}]`);
const web3: Web3 = new Web3(zksyncRpcUrl);
web3.registerPlugin(new ZKsyncPlugin(zksyncRpcUrl));

async function main() {
const blockNumber = await web3.eth.getBlockNumber();
console.log(`Current block number: ${blockNumber}`);

const mainContract = await web3.ZKsync.rpc.getMainContract();
console.log(`Main contract: ${mainContract}`);
}

main().catch(console.error);
```

## Recap
In this tutorial, you’ve learned how to set up a Web3.js project with ZKsync, both by integrating it into an
existing project and by starting from scratch using ZKsync CLI. You’ve also explored how to interact with
ZKsync specific JSON-RPC methods, such as retrieving the current block number and fetching the main contract
address.

## Learn More

- To further enhance your skills, explore the examples provided in the ZKsync CLI scripting template found under `src/examples`.
These examples demonstrate additional scripts you can run with Web3.js to interact with ZKsync.
- Refer to the [ZKsync Web3.js documentation](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/web3js) for more details and
code samples to continue building with the Web3.js Plugin.
