---
title: Building the Contracts
description: Build the contracts for your app.

---

## Project Setup

Make a new folder for the project called `zksync-webauthn` and navigate to that folder in your terminal:

:test-action{actionId="make-project-folder"}

```shell
mkdir zksync-webauthn
cd zksync-webauthn
```

We can start by creating the contracts for the smart account, paymaster, and NFT.

:test-action{actionId="initialize-contracts"}

```shell
npx zksync-cli create contracts --template hardhat_solidity --project contracts
```

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-init"}

The CLI will prompt you to enter a private key for deploying.
Enter the private key below for a pre-configured rich wallet:

```shell
? Private key of the wallet responsible for deploying contracts (optional)
0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110
```

:test-action{actionId="add-env-pk"}

Once that is done, move into the `contracts` folder
and delete the template contracts, scripts, and tests:

:test-action{actionId="remove-template-files"}

```shell
cd contracts
rm -rf ./contracts/*
rm -rf ./deploy/*
rm -rf ./test/*
```

## Contracts

Open the `zksync-webauthn/contracts` folder in your preferred IDE.

We will be creating 4 contracts:

- `GeneralPaymaster.sol`: a general paymaster contract to sponsor transactions.
- `MyNFT.sol`: a generic NFT contract.
- `AAFactory.sol`: a factory contract to deploy new instances of smart accounts.
- `Account.sol`: the contract for the smart account.

### Paymaster Contract

Create a new file in the `contracts/contracts` folder called `GeneralPaymaster.sol`.

:test-action{actionId="create-paymaster"}

```shell
touch contracts/GeneralPaymaster.sol
```

:test-action{actionId="open-paymaster"}
:test-action{actionId="paymaster-contract-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="GeneralPaymaster.sol"}

```solidity [contracts/GeneralPaymaster.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/GeneralPaymaster.sol"}
```

::
::

This is a basic paymaster contract that allows us to sponsor transactions for users of our app.

### NFT Contract

Create another file in the `contracts/contracts` folder called `MyNFT.sol`.

:test-action{actionId="create-nft-contract"}

```shell
touch contracts/MyNFT.sol
```

:test-action{actionId="open-nft"}
:test-action{actionId="nft-contract-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="MyNFT.sol"}

```solidity [contracts/MyNFT.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/MyNFT.sol"}
```

::
::

This is a generic NFT contract that mints svg images of Zeek using different colors.
We will use this to test interacting with smart contracts using WebAuthn.

### AA Factory

Create a file in the `contracts/contracts` folder called `AAFactory.sol`.

:test-action{actionId="create-aa-factory"}

```shell
touch contracts/AAFactory.sol
```

:test-action{actionId="open-aa-factory"}
:test-action{actionId="aa-factory-contract-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="AAFactory.sol"}

  ```solidity [contracts/AAFactory.sol]
  :code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/AAFactory.sol"}
  ```

::
::

This contract is a factory contract responsbile for deploying new instances of the `Account.sol` contract.

### Smart Contract Account

Finally, create a file in the `contracts/contracts` folder called `Account.sol`.

:test-action{actionId="create-account-contract"}

```shell
touch contracts/Account.sol
```

:test-action{actionId="open-account"}
:test-action{actionId="account-contract-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="Account.sol"}

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol"}
```

::
::

The smart account contract is where we perform the WebAuthn signature validation.

### Understanding WebAuthn Signature Validation

In the `Account.sol` contract, the `_validateTransaction` function checks to see if there is a valid secp256k1 signature from the account owner,
just like the example in the [Native AA Multisig](https://code.zksync.io/tutorials/native-aa-multisig) tutorial.
If the transaction is not signed by the standard account owner, the next check is to see if the transaction contains a valid WebAuthn signature.

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol:_validateTransaction"}
```

The contract contains a state variable `r1Owner` to store the public key of the WebAuthn account that the owner wants to authorize.
The `updateR1Owner` function can update the value of the `r1Owner`.

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol:r1Owner"}
```

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol:updateR1Owner"}
```

To validate the signature, the `_validateWebAuthnSignature` function
first extracts the `authenticatorData`, `clientData`, and `rs` values from the decoded signature.

It's important to note that the WebAuthn authentication process doesn't just sign the transaction data we send as a challenge.
The WebAuthn authentication process returns three pieces of information that we need for the validation process:
the WebAuthn signature, the `authenticatorData`, and the `clientData`.

The `extractChallengeFromClientData` function extracts the WebAuthn challenge from the `clientData`.
Note that the `extractChallengeFromClientData` function relies on the specific implementation of how the challenge is created
in the frontend section of the tutorial in order to work.

The extracted challenge and the transaction hash are checked to ensure they are equal.
If the values are equal,
this means that the exact transaction data that is submitted to the contract matches the transaction data signed by the WebAuthn account.

Next, the `_validateWebAuthnSignature` function checks for the malleability of the signature,
and checks to see if the WebAuthn user flags are set.
We will ensure that the signature conforms to these checks in the frontend section.

Finally, it calls the `callVerifier` function to call the `P256Verify` precompile.

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol:_validateWebAuthnSignature"}
```

The `callVerifier` function encodes the input into the correct format and calls the `P256Verify` precompile.

If the returned output is empty, the validation evaluated to false.
This means that the public key derived from the WebAuthn signature does not match the registered `r1Owner` public key.

The output data should be 1 (in 32 bytes format) if the signature verification process succeeds, or nothing if it fails.

```solidity [contracts/Account.sol]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/contracts/Account.sol:callVerifier"}
```

## Deploying

### Using a Local Node

Open a new terminal and start a local in-memory node with `era_test_node`:

:test-action{actionId="start-era-test-node"}

```shell
era_test_node run
```

Next, replace your `hardhat.config.ts` file with the file below:

:test-action{actionId="open-hardhat-config"}
:test-action{actionId="hardhat-config"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="hardhat.config.ts"}

```solidity [hardhat.config.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/hardhat.config.ts"}
```

::
::

### Adding the Deploy Script

Create a new file inside the `deploy` folder called `deploy.ts`:

:test-action{actionId="make-deploy-script"}

```shell
touch deploy/deploy.ts
```

Copy and paste the code below.

:test-action{actionId="open-deploy-script"}
:test-action{actionId="deploy-script"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="deploy.ts"}

```solidity [deploy/deploy.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/contracts/deploy/deploy.ts"}
```

::
::

This script will:

- deploy the `AAFactory` contract
- deploy the NFT contract and mint an NFT
- deploy the paymaster contract and send funds to it from the pre-configured rich account.

### Running the Deploy Script

Finally, compile and deploy the contracts with:

:test-action{actionId="compile-and-deploy"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run compile
npm run deploy
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn compile
yarn deploy
```

::

Save the output of this command, as we will use these deployed contract addresses in the frontend.

That's all for the contracts!
In the next section, we will build the frontend.
