---
title: Building the Frontend
description: Build the frontend for your app.

---

## Frontend Setup

We will use Next.js to build the frontend.

Move out of your `contract` folder and back into the `zksync-webauthn` folder.
Make a new Next.js project for the frontend using the configuration below:

:test-action{actionId="init-next-app"}

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest
```

```txt
✔ What is your project named? … frontend
✔ Would you like to use TypeScript? Yes
✔ Would you like to use ESLint? Yes
✔ Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? No
✔ Would you like to use `src/` directory? Yes
✔ Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) No
✔ Would you like to customize the default import alias (@/*)? No
```

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-nextjs-init"}

Move into your projects and install the dependencies below:

:test-action{actionId="install-nextjs-deps"}

::code-group

```bash [npm]
cd frontend
npm install @simplewebauthn/browser@10.0.0 @simplewebauthn/server@10.0.1 cbor@9.0.2 ethers@5.7.2 zksync-ethers@5.1.0
```

```bash [yarn]
cd frontend
yarn add @simplewebauthn/browser@10.0.0 @simplewebauthn/server@10.0.1 cbor@9.0.2 ethers@5.7.2 zksync-ethers@5.1.0
```

::

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-nextjs-deps"}

### Environment Variables

Make a new file called `.env.local`, copy the variables below,
and add the deployed contract addresses from the previous section.

```env
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/.env.example"}
```

:test-action{actionId="create-env-file"}
:test-action{actionId="extract-aa-factory-address"}
:test-action{actionId="extract-nft-contract-address"}
:test-action{actionId="extract-paymaster-contract-address"}

## Home Page

We can start by replacing the home page with one that has four links for each page we will make.

Replace your `frontend/src/pages/index.tsx` file with the code below.

:test-action{actionId="open-home-page"}
:test-action{actionId="home-page-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="index.tsx"}

```ts [frontend/src/pages/index.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/src/pages/index.tsx"}
```

::
::

### Layout

Next, let's create the `Layout` component used in the home page.

Create a `src/components` folder and a new file inside called `Layout.tsx`.

:test-action{actionId="make-layout-component"}

```shell
mkdir src/components
touch src/components/Layout.tsx
```

Copy the `Layout` component below to your file:

:test-action{actionId="open-layout-component"}
:test-action{actionId="layout-component-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="Layout.tsx"}

```ts [frontend/src/components/Layout.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/src/components/Layout.tsx"}
```

::
::

### Styles

Let's also update the styles in `src/styles/globals.css`.

:test-action{actionId="open-styles"}
:test-action{actionId="update-styles"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="globals.css"}

```ts [frontend/src/styles/globals.css]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/src/styles/globals.css"}
```

::
::

## API

Let's setup our API endpoints next.
We need to do this because some parts of the WebAuthn ceremonies must run on a server instead of the client.

### Get Registration Options

Create a new file in the `src/pages/api` folder called `get-registration-options.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="make-registration-api"}

```shell
touch src/pages/api/get-registration-options.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="open-registration-api"}
:test-action{actionId="registration-api-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="get-registration-options.ts"}

```ts [frontend/src/pages/api/get-registration-options.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/src/pages/api/get-registration-options.ts"}
```

::
::

The `get-registration-options` endpoint is used to generate the options input object for the WebAuthn registration ceremony.

These options tell the browser how to configure the registration,
including setting the name of the passkey, the domain of the application making the request, and whether user verification is required.
You can learn more about the options available for registration in the [`simplewebauthn` docs](https://simplewebauthn.dev/docs/packages/server#1-generate-registration-options).

### Get Authentication Options

Create another file in the `src/pages/api` folder called `get-authentication-options.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="make-auth-api"}

```shell
touch src/pages/api/get-authentication-options.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="open-auth-api"}
:test-action{actionId="auth-api-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="get-authentication-options.ts"}

```ts [frontend/src/pages/api/get-authentication-options.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/src/pages/api/get-authentication-options.ts"}
```

::
::

The `get-authentication-options` endpoint is used to generate the options input object for the WebAuthn authentication ceremony.
You can learn more about the options available for authentication in the [`simplewebauthn` docs](https://simplewebauthn.dev/docs/packages/server#1-generate-authentication-options).

The challenge passed in through the request body represents the transaction data that would normally be signed by a wallet like Metamask.
The `generateAuthenticationOptions` method converts the challenge to a base64 URL for the options input object.

If you want to verify that the final base64URL challenge in the options is indeed equal to the input challenge,
you can use the `isoBase64URL` method provided by `@simplewebauthn`.

```ts
import { isoBase64URL } from '@simplewebauthn/server/helpers';
const decodedChallenge = isoBase64URL.toUTF8String(options.challenge);
```

## Utils

Next, let's make a new folder called `utils` where we can add some utility functions.

:test-action{actionId="make-utils-folder"}

```shell
mkdir utils
```

### String Conversions

Create a new file inside the `utils` folder called `string.ts` to help handle some string conversions we will need to work with hex values and base64 URLs.

:test-action{actionId="make-strings-utils"}

```shell
touch utils/string.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="open-strings-utils"}
:test-action{actionId="strings-utils-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="string.ts"}

```ts [frontend/utils/string.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/utils/string.ts"}
```

::
::

### Transaction Utils

Next, create a file called `tx.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="make-tx-utils"}

```shell
touch utils/tx.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="open-tx-utils"}
:test-action{actionId="tx-utils-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="tx.ts"}

```ts [frontend/utils/tx.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/utils/tx.ts"}
```

::
::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
Note: you may need to update the import at the top from `zksync-ethers/build/utils` to `zksync-ethers/build/src/utils`.
::

This file contains helper functions to get data for a transaction
and register a new passkey in a smart account.

- The `getTransaction` function constructs a transaction that is sponsored by the paymaster contract using the `getPaymasterOverrides` function.

- The `registerKeyInAccount` function sends a transaction to register a new passkey as the `r1Owner` of a smart account.
The `updateR1Owner` function must be called by the smart contract account itself.
Because there is no passkey registered yet, the original wallet that created the account must sign the transaction, which we can pass as a custom signature.
This means that wallet passed into this function must be the same wallet created in the "Create Account" page.

### WebAuthn Utils

The last file we need to add in the `utils` folder is called `webauthn.ts`.

:test-action{actionId="make-webauthn-utils"}

```shell
touch utils/webauthn.ts
```

:test-action{actionId="open-webauthn-utils"}
:test-action{actionId="webauthn-utils-code"}

::drop-panel
::panel{label="webauthn.ts"}

```ts [frontend/utils/tx.ts]
:code-import{filePath="webauthn/frontend/utils/webauthn.ts"}
```

::
::

This file contains helper functions to start the WebAuthn authentication process and
send transactions with a WebAuthn signature.

- The `authenticate` function gets the authentication options from the endpoint we set up earlier,
and passes them into the `startAuthentication` method provided by `@simplewebauthn`.

- The `signAndSend` function takes the response from the authentication process and processes it so it's in the correct format for the smart account contract.
Remember that the WebAuthn authentication process returns three pieces of information that we need for validation:
the WebAuthn signature, the `authenticatorData`, and the `clientData`.
The `getSignatureFromAuthResponse` function encodes the `rs` values from the signature along with the `authenticatorData` and the `clientData`
into one signature that can be passed into the smart contract via the transaction `customData.customSignature`.

- The `getDataToSign` function generates a signed digest of a transaction.

- The `getRS` function extracts the `rs` values from the WebAuthn signature
and normalizes the values to ensure they are in the lower half of the secp256r1 curve.
This is required to pass the malleability check in the smart account contract.

- The `getPublicKeyFromAuthenticatorData` function extracts the public key from the `authenticatorData` returned from the registration process.

Let's complete the frontend in the next section.
