---
title: Build an ERC20 custom paymaster
description: Build a paymaster that accepts any ERC20 token in exchange for transaction fees.
---

This tutorial shows you how to build a custom paymaster that allows users to pay fees with any ERC20 token.

You will:

- Create a paymaster that assumes a single unit of an ERC20 token is enough to cover any transaction fee.
- Create the ERC20 token contract and send some tokens to a new wallet.
- Send a `mint` transaction from the newly created wallet via the paymaster.
  Although the transaction normally requires ETH to pay the gas fee, our paymaster executes the transaction in exchange for 1 unit of the ERC20 token.

## Prerequisites

- Make sure your machine satisfies the [system requirements](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-compiler-solidity/tree/main#system-requirements).
- A [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installation running at minimum Node.js version `18`.
- You are already familiar with deploying smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
  If not, please refer to the first section of the [quickstart tutorial](https://docs.zksync.io/build/start-coding/quick-start).
- Some background knowledge on the concepts covered by the tutorial would be helpful too. Have a look at the following
  docs:
  - [Account abstraction protocol](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/design).
  - [Introduction to system contracts](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/era-contracts/system-contracts).
  - [Smart contract deployment](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/ethereum-differences/contract-deployment) on zkSyn Era.
  - [Gas estimation for transactions](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/fee-model#gas-estimation-for-transactions) guide.
- You know how to get your [private key from your MetaMask wallet](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key).

## Complete Project

The tutorial code is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/zksync-community-hub/community-code/tree/main/code/erc20-paymaster).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
This entire tutorial can be run in under a minute using Atlas.
Atlas is a smart contract IDE that lets you write, deploy, and interact with contracts from your browser.
[Open this project in Atlas](https://app.atlaszk.com/projects?template=https://github.com/atlas-labs-inc/zksync-custom-paymaster&open=/scripts/main.ts&chainId=280)
::

## Setup the Project

First, initialize a new project by running the command:

:test-action{actionId="initialize-hardhat-project"}

```sh
npx zksync-cli create erc20-paymaster --template hardhat_solidity
```

This creates a new ZKsync Era project called `erc20-paymaster` with a basic `Greeter` contract.

Next, navigate into the project directory and install the dependencies:

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-init"}
:test-action{actionId="npm-install"}

```sh
cd erc20-paymaster && npm install
```

:test-action{actionId="wait-for-install"}

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
The template project includes multiple example contracts and scripts. Feel free to delete them.
::

## Design

### Paymaster Solidity Contract

The contract code defines an ERC20 token and allows it to be used to pay the fees for transactions.

The skeleton contract looks like this:

```solidity [MyPaymaster.sol]
:code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/templates/MyPaymaster.sol"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
<!-- TODO: link to SystemContracts#bootloader -->
Only the bootloader is allowed to call the `validateAndPayForPaymasterTransaction` and `postTransaction` functions.
To implement that, the `onlyBootloader` modifier is used on these functions.
::

### Parsing the Paymaster Input

The paymaster pays the transaction fees and charges the user one unit of the `allowedToken` in exchange.

The input that the paymaster receives is encoded in the `paymasterInput` within the `validateAndPayForPaymasterTransaction` function.

As described in [the paymaster documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/account-abstraction/paymasters),
there are standardized ways to encode user interactions with `paymasterInput`.
To charge the user, we require that they have provided enough allowance of the ERC20 token to the paymaster contract.
This allowance is done in the `approvalBased` flow behind the scenes.

Firstly, we check that the `paymasterInput` is encoded as in the `approvalBased` flow,
and that the token sent in `paymasterInput` is the one the paymaster accepts.

```solidity [MyPaymaster.sol]
magic = PAYMASTER_VALIDATION_SUCCESS_MAGIC;

require(
    _transaction.paymasterInput.length >= 4,
    "The standard paymaster input must be at least 4 bytes long"
);

bytes4 paymasterInputSelector = bytes4(_transaction.paymasterInput[0:4]);
if (paymasterInputSelector == IPaymasterFlow.approvalBased.selector)  {
    (address token, uint256 minAllowance, bytes memory data) = abi.decode(_transaction.paymasterInput[4:], (address, uint256, bytes));

    // We verify that the user has provided enough allowance
    require(token == allowedToken, "Invalid token");

    //
    // ...
    //
} else {
    revert("Unsupported paymaster flow");
}
```

Next, we check the user provided enough allowance:

```solidity [MyPaymaster.sol]
:code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/contracts/MyPaymaster.sol:check-allowance"}
```

Finally, we check the price of transaction fees, transfer the ERC20 tokens to the paymaster,
and transfer the correspondent gas fee from the paymaster to the bootloader to cover the transaction fees.

```solidity [MyPaymaster.sol]
:code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/contracts/MyPaymaster.sol:check-tx-fees"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
The [validation steps](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction/signature-validation)
ensure that the paymaster won't throttle if the first storage read which has a different value from the execution
on the API is a storage slot that belongs to the user.</br>
This is why it is important to verify transaction prerequisites _before_ performing any logic and why we
_first_ check that the user provided enough allowance before calling `transferFrom`.
::

## Paymaster Contract Full Code

Create the `contracts/MyPaymaster.sol` file with

:test-action{actionId="create-contract-file"}

```sh
touch contracts/MyPaymaster.sol
```

and copy/paste the following:

:test-action{actionId="add-paymaster-contract"}

```solidity [MyPaymaster.sol]
:code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/contracts/MyPaymaster.sol"}
```

## Create ERC20 Contract

For the sake of simplicity we will use a modified OpenZeppelin ERC20 implementation.

:test-action{actionId="create-erc20-contract-file"}

```sh
touch contracts/MyERC20.sol
```

Create the `contracts/MyERC20.sol` file and copy/paste the following:

:test-action{actionId="add-erc20-contract"}

```solidity [contracts/MyERC20.sol]
:code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/contracts/MyERC20.sol"}
```

## Compile and Deploy the Contracts

The script below deploys the ERC20 contract and the paymaster contract.
It also mints some `MyERC20` tokens into the account we use to deploy the contracts to use them with the paymaster at a later step.
In addition, the script sends `0.06ETH` to the paymaster contract so it can pay the transaction fees we send later on.

1. In the `scripts` folder, create the file `deploy-paymaster.ts` and copy/paste the following.

    :test-action{actionId="create-deploy-file"}

    ```sh
    touch scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts
    ```

    Make sure the private key of the account used to deploy the contracts is configured in the `.env` file of the project.

    :test-action{actionId="add-env-file"}
    :test-action{actionId="add-testing-private-key"}
    :test-action{actionId="add-deploy-script"}

    ```ts [scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts"}
    ```

1. Compile and the contracts from the project root:

    :test-action{actionId="compile-contracts"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm run compile
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn compile
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm compile
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun compile
    ```

    ::

1. Execute the deployment script:

    :test-action{actionId="use-local-network"}
    :test-action{actionId="deploy-contracts"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npx]
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun hardhat run ./scripts/deploy-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ::

    The output should be roughly the following:

    ```sh
    Deploying MyERC20 contract to ZKsyncEraSepolia
    MyERC20 deployed to 0x26b368C3Ed16313eBd6660b72d8e4439a697Cb0B
    Deploying MyPaymaster contract to dockerizedNode
    MyPaymaster deployed to 0x094499Df5ee555fFc33aF07862e43c90E6FEe501
    Funding paymaster with ETH...
    Paymaster ETH balance is now 60000000000000000
    Minted 3 tokens for the wallet
    Done!
    ```

## Using the Paymaster

1. Create the `use-paymaster.ts` script in the `scripts` folder, replacing the parameter placeholders with the details from the previous deploy step.

    :test-action{actionId="create-use-paymaster-file"}

    ```sh
    touch scripts/use-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
    Make sure you use the private key of the wallet created by the previous script as that wallet contains the ERC20 tokens.
    ::

    :test-action{actionId="add-use-paymaster"}

    ```ts [scripts/use-paymaster.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="erc20-paymaster/scripts/use-paymaster.ts"}
    ```

    :test-action{actionId="paymaster-address"}
    :test-action{actionId="token-address"}

1. Run the script:

    :test-action{actionId="run-use-paymaster"}

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npx]
    npx hardhat run ./scripts/use-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat run ./scripts/use-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm hardhat run ./scripts/use-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun hardhat run ./scripts/use-paymaster.ts
    ```

    ::

    The output should look something like this:

    ```txt
    ERC20 token balance of the wallet before mint: 3
    Paymaster ETH balance is 60000000000000000
    Transaction fee estimation is :>>  568750000000000
    Minting 5 tokens for the wallet via paymaster...
    Paymaster ERC20 token balance is now 1
    Paymaster ETH balance is now 59650952750000000
    ERC20 token balance of the wallet after mint: 7
    ```

The wallet had 3 tokens after running the deployment script and, after sending the transaction to `mint` 5 more tokens,
the balance is 7 as 1 token was used to pay the transaction fee to the paymaster.
The paymaster paid the fees for the mint transaction with ETH.

## Common Errors

- If the `use-paymaster.ts` script fails with the error:

  ```sh
  Failed to submit transaction: Failed to validate the transaction.
  Reason: Validation revert: Paymaster validation error: Failed to transfer tx fee to the bootloader. Paymaster balance might not be enough.
  ```

  please try sending additional ETH to the paymaster so it has enough funds to pay for the transaction.
  You can use [ZKsync native bridge or ecosystem partners](https://zksync.io/explore#bridges) (make sure Sepolia testnet is supported by selected bridge).

- If the `use-paymaster.ts` script fails when minting new ERC20 tokens with the error `Error: transaction failed`,
and the transactions appear with status "Failed" in the [ZKsync explorer](https://explorer.zksync.io/),
please reach out to us on [our Discord](https://join.zksync.dev/).
As a workaround, try including a specific `gasLimit` value in the transaction.

## Learn More

- To learn more about L1->L2 interaction on ZKsync, check out the
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interoperability).
- To learn more about the `zksync-ethers` SDK, check out its
  [documentation](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers).
- To learn more about the ZKsync hardhat plugins, check out their
  [documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/build/tooling/hardhat/getting-started).
