---
title: Using viem with ZKsync
description: Learn how to use the viem/zksync plugin to interact with ZKsync.
---

[viem](https://viem.sh/) is a TypeScript interface for Ethereum that now includes support for ZKsync,
offering low-level stateless primitives for interacting with both Ethereum and ZKsync.
You can use viem to interact seamlessly with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync.
For more information on ZKsync specific support please refer to the [viem documentation](https://viem.sh/zksync).

You can use viem to interact with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync.

## Installation

Start by adding Viem to your project. Open your terminal and execute the following command:

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm install viem
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add viem
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add viem
```

```bash [bun]
bun add viem
```

::

This command installs the latest version of Viem and adds it to your project's dependencies.

## Initial Setup

### Client Configuration

Before using viem, you need to setup a [Client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/intro.html)
with a chosen [Transport](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/intro.html)
and [Chain](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/chains.html).

#### Example

```ts [src/App.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Read.tsx:client"}
```

<!-- /*spellchecker: disable*/ -->
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
For %%zk_mainnet_name%%, replace `zksyncSepoliaTestnet` with `zksync`.
::
<!-- /*spellchecker: enable*/ -->

### Reading Data

You can access ZKsync data by invoking public actions that mirror Ethereum RPC methods using the viem client.

#### Fetch the Latest Block Number

```ts [Read.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Read.tsx:block-number"}
```

#### Read from a Contract

```ts [Read.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Read.tsx:read-contract"}
```

### Writing Data

To write data, such as sending transactions, you need to set up a Wallet client.

#### Sending Transactions

```ts [Write.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Write.tsx:write"}
```

## Advanced Usage

### Utilizing Paymasters

[Paymasters](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction.html#paymasters)
cover transaction fees, facilitating a smoother user experience.
To utilize ZKsync Era's native account abstraction and Paymasters, extend the Wallet client with `eip712WalletActions`:

#### Setup

```ts [Paymaster.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Paymaster.tsx:setup-imports"}

:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Paymaster.tsx:client"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
Ensure your paymaster contract is set up and funded appropriately.
::

For a live example, check out this [StackBlitz demo](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-zfdhx8-ju8urb?file=index.tsx).
Remember to replace `PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` with your own!

### Contract Interactions with Paymasters

#### Contract Function Call

```ts [Paymaster.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/Paymaster.tsx:use-paymaster"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
Ensure your paymaster contract is set up and funded appropriately.
::

For a live example, check out this [StackBlitz demo](https://stackblitz.com/edit/github-aa4rfx?file=index.tsx).
Remember to replace `PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` with your own!

### Smart Contract Interactions

Interact with smart contracts by creating a contract instance, providing ABI, address, and the client.

#### Example

```ts [ReadContract.tsx]
:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/ReadContract.tsx:imports"}

:code-import{filePath="viem/src/components/ReadContract.tsx:read-message"}
```
