---
title: Dapp with gated NFT paymaster
description: Build a frontend that allows users to interact smart contracts with zero transaction fees wif they hold an NFT.
---

Discover how to construct a tailored paymaster that enables users to sidestep gas fees when they own a particular NFT.
By the end of this tutorial, you'll:

- Write a `mint` function for the `ERC721.sol` contract.
- Design and implement the validation logic for the `ERC721GatedPaymaster.sol` contract.
- Deploy `Greeter.sol`, `ERC721.sol`, and `ERC721GatedPaymaster.sol` contracts.
- Connect our frontend application with users' MetaMask wallets.
- Initialize our contracts to facilitate interaction on the client side.
- Fetch data to display in a React component.
- Harness the capabilities of our paymaster based on NFT possession.

### Introduction

Welcome to this hands-on tutorial on creating and interacting with an `ERC721GatedPaymaster` and interacting with a
front-end application. If you've ever been curious about the mechanisms that allow for gasless transactions on zkSync
Era and our native account abstraction capabilities you're in the right place!

You'll gain a thorough understanding of how to create, compile, and deploy smart contracts on zkSync Era, delve into the
intricacies of paymasters and validation logic, and seamlessly integrate them within a frontend application. On
completion, you'll have a fully functional `ERC721GatedPaymaster` contract and an interactive frontend to go with it.

## Prerequisites

- Make sure your machine satisfies the [system
  requirements](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-compiler-solidity/tree/main#system-requirements).
- A [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installation running Node.js version 16.
- Some familiarity with deploying smart contracts on zkSync. If not, please refer to the first section of the
  [quickstart tutorial](../../quick-start/hello-world.md).
- Some background knowledge on the concepts covered by the tutorial would be helpful too. Have a look at the following
  docs:
  - [Account abstraction protocol](../../developer-reference/account-abstraction.md).
  - [Introduction to system contracts](../../developer-reference/system-contracts.md).
  - [Smart contract deployment](../../developer-reference/contract-deployment.md) on zkSyn Era.
  - [Gas estimation for transactions](../../developer-reference/fee-model.md#gas-estimation-for-transactions) guide.
- You should also know [how to get your private key from your MetaMask
  wallet](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key).

### Complete Project

Download the complete project [here](https://github.com/matter-labs/tutorials/tree/main/gated-nft).


## Step 1 — Setup the Project

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
This tutorial uses `React` and `Next.js` for the frontend framework (though the principles apply to other frameworks
  too).</br>
We've provided a template for a hassle-free start. The primary focus is on mastering the `zksync-ethers` SDK and
paymaster validations. 
::

1. Clone the template and `cd` into the folder.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/matter-labs/tutorials
cd tutorials/gated-nft
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

Your project structure should now resemble:

```text
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── frontend
├── package.json
├── yarn.lock
└── zksync
```

The project makes use of Yarn workspaces so we can seamlessly manage our dependencies between our frontend and smart
contracts. While `/frontend` houses React components, styles, and logic, `/zksync` contains everything related to smart
contract development and deployment. This tutorial will start in the `/zksync` directory as we need to write, compile
and deploy our contracts before we can interact with them!
